can you draw the graph of x is equal to
first right 2 where is 2 okay
yes
good
yes also write 2 here okay
this is x is equal to 2 means the line
which is parallel to
a y-axis okay
but passing through x is equal to okay
now can you draw the graph of
first you should solve with this
equation then you should find the graph
of this okay
okay
2y plus 3
is equal to
minus 8.
wait wait wait wait wait i write minus
seven okay
first of all you solve you know how to
solve
for why
yes
on both sides okay
[Music]
okay good great very nice
yes can you draw the graph of y is equal
to minus five okay
yes
draw this
also write minus 5
no here here you should write the minus
and this is draw the arrow okay on both
sides because this is not limited line
okay
if it is not line segment line segment
and line has both have the difference
you know line segment and line
difference
line is a big you this is moving on left
side and right side infinitely but a
line segment is a part of line okay
so x is equal to 2 this is the equation
of 2 y plus 3 you already know
how how to draw the graph when equation
is in one variable okay
yes
graph of these
graph of linear equation in two variable
okay
two variables okay
because in system of linear equation we
also use two variables okay
for example
[Music]
2x plus
rho 5 okay
can you draw like first of all you
should draw x axis and y axis can you
draw x-axis and y-axis
yes
then i will explain it
no it will be straight line not uh
vertical or horizontal lines okay
also draw the arrow on x-axis there are
also arrows okay
also write x
x and y only
x and y
okay
you know x intercepts and y intercepts
yes
okay find the x intercept when you have
the equation in two variable then you
should find x-intercepts and
y-intercepts okay
come here and write for x-intercepts
find the x-intercept you know for x
intercept which one is zero y or x
for x interception
why
you should write y is equal to 0 okay
now put this value in the equation you
can get the x intercept okay
are you understanding
yes
can you find put y is equal to 0 in the
equation come here and put y is equal to
0 it is varied
3y
put y is equal to 0 then you can get the
x intercepts
no it is wrong it is wrong it is wrong
way
you are doing wrong understand hello
you are doing the wrong way
you should understand that x intercept
is the point whose y coordinate is 0
okay
2x
plus 3y is equal to 5 put y value is
equal to 0 in this equation okay
no you should put the y value equal to
zero
instead of x y you should write three
times zero it is you are understanding
yes
then you should solve what is answer 3
times 0 simplify and find x value
what is x value
write the steps when you will write the
steps then you can do
right 2x
2x and
here is 0 okay is equal to 5 there is no
need to next step not write the 0 2x
plus 0 is
what is the answer
yes 2 on both sides here
x is equal to
what is the answer
write it in point one point one two
point five
find the y-intercept this is the point
understand two point five comma zero
okay this is x intercept clear
yes
find y intercept write for y intercept
for y intercept which one is 0 can you
tell me
x
x yes all points on y-axis have x zero
come on
okay
can you show these points on the x axis
and y excess
yes
show these points
first you should be equal division on x
axis and y axis okay sometimes you are
taking two boxes for one unit sometimes
you are taking one box for one unit it
is wrong it is not good okay
you should take same same size on x axis
and y so write some values on x axis and
y axis okay right
first write some value then you try okay
also write 2.5 then also write 2.5
next point y intercept what is next
point 1.6
okay good now you should draw the line
which is passing through these two
points okay
can you draw
yes
yes also write why
also write 2x plus 3y is equal to 5 okay
this is 2x plus 3y
is equal to 5 okay you are understanding
for y intercept you should also write 0
and 1.5 6 okay
clear
by joining the x intercepts and y
intercept you can draw the linear
equation okay
i give you other linear equation you
should try okay
can you do
you should draw
you should draw this graph can you draw
five x plus y is equal to six
first of all find their x-intercepts
first you should write
x-intercept and also give the heading
x-intercepts
give the heading then you should do okay
what is answer six over five
okay right next leave the heading y
intercepts okay
then you should
okay this is one point two and zero okay
also right after this
y intercept
also write it in point five point five
can you write
no there's no need to divide on one okay
understand there's no need to divide on
one clear
if we will multiply we will divide then
answer is same
write it in point four what is x and
what is y
zero comma 6 okay good grade
now right draw the graph
can you draw this graph on previous
picture
here you should draw this graph okay
okay
see your points come and write the point
one point is one point two comma zero
next is what is next point
six and one point two you should choose
line two
do i draw a line
you should choose the first you should
draw these four two points okay these
are two points clear can you draw
draw the line hello
yes
yes yes good
okay
now understand this point is their
common point okay
can you write its x value and y value
for this point this is the solution of
both equations clear
yes
previous equation
it is
1.2
not 0 understand this point is not 0
what is y value y value is less than 1
means you can write
0.9
or anything okay
see here this is 1 the hair is 1 but
this point is less than 1 okay
it will be in point 0.9 okay
yeah
clear right 0.9
it's clear
yes
this is the estimated solution not the
exact solution okay
from graph we can estimate the solution
okay we can find the estimated solution
so x
1.2 y is equal to 0.9
this is the solution of
this system of linear equation
previous question was
5x plus y is equal to 6 5x plus y
you see it is clear
hello
yes
first of all just draw the graph then
you should you can find the solution
okay
this find the
solution of these equations x minus y
one
you should find the x intercept and y
intercept of both equations okay
then you should draw their graph okay
first find x intercept of first equation
then second equation x and y intercepts
[Music]
you know how to draw
how to write
you should find the x and y intercept of
first equation then find x and y
intercept of second equation then you
should draw the graph okay
hello as you're solving
find the x and y intercept for each
quick each one yes each equation then
you should draw the line of graph of
each equation okay
okay
yes x minus y
x intercepts
one
that
or okay
what is y intercept
oh
and then next page you can draw the
graph okay
if you you can also
copy and on one side then you can draw
the graph here wait wait
you should try to move here move these
okay wait
wait wait
you should move them
okay
no you should
you should try on the page not move on
other side
you should only
write on the page okay here
wait wait where is the equation
wait wait wait wait wait wait
you i was moving the but you are
doing this
wait wait
okay you should try your next page it
will be good okay come on next page x is
equal to 1
y is equal to 1
[Music]
next is
x is equal to 4 y is equal to 8.
okay no draw
[Music]
these are x-intercepts clear
yes
um
[Music]
you should also write one two three
four okay
also write the number you need numbers
from one to four okay you should write
one two three four
you should write the number here
and in small size one
you should give two boxes for each okay
then
okay it is
no you are doing wrong understand
400 okay it is good 400 digits
do
bye
what is their common point then this
will be their solution
can you mark their common point
these lines are
no this is not their common point when
lines are crossing see vr lines are
crossing two lines
two lines are crossing
which is their common point point of
intersection intersection means joining
point
where they are joining you should see
no you are erasing it is wrong
it is good to yes it is good not wrong
you should see their joining point
which one is their joining point common
point understand these lines two roads
for example one road this line these
roads are crossing
so this is their common point come here
this is their common point come
draw one point one point one point only
one point
yes this this is the common okay not do
as because it will be difficult to this
is their common okay wait wait
can you write x and y value can you
write here
okay what is y value
you are writing six okay wait wait
here is one
two three four
five
five point five okay understand
player
5.5 but it is negative we will write the
negative number here minus 1
minus 2
minus 3
okay
minus 4 understand this is negative y
excess clear it is clear
x is equal to 6.5
y is equal to
minus 5.5
these are the solution okay
this is clear and not clear
this question is clear or not clear
hello
clear
okay
[Music]
okay wait i think you have made mistake
okay understand if you are dreaming
mistake minus y minus y is equal to one
okay
are you understanding
yes
so you should divide minus on both sides
then answer is minus one
where y is equal to minus 1 clear
yes
now correct it 1 and minus 1 there is
mistake
this line
1 and
1 this is wrong ok you should again draw
this is minus one this is minus one okay
one and minus one where is minus one
one on x axis understand you are doing
wrong why on you are doing wrong again
you are again doing wrong understand
[Music]
x x x intercept is one y intercept is
minus one clear
yes
but you are you should see this is you
should mark the point this is the point
one point other point is this clear
now you should draw
hello
are you trying
yes yes
you should draw this line one and minus
one then we will end the class okay your
time our time is completed one and minus
one it is use uh choose the line tool
this is wrong line okay
hello this line is wrong understand
hello
yes
right
x is 1 and y is equal to -1 it is very
easy
you are again doing wrong x is one and y
is minus one
you should first decide that points what
is where is minus one y is equal to
minus 1 which point is minus 1
write the point this is the point
understand you are not understanding
this is the point here is minus one
clear
draw a line between these points okay
see they are common points which one is
their common point
which one is the common point of two
lines crossing point which is crossing
point
you should mark only one point only one
point not mark this
this is the point write the value of
this point clear
right here right here
x value is 2
i think it is not 2.
i think it is three exact value three
three and
two okay
three and one point nine three point
three and one point nine i think okay
you can also say to claire
yes
x is equal to 3
y is equal to 1.9
solution
solution of system of linear equation
okay
yes
tomorrow i will take that as you should
write it in terms
of linear equations okay
i will take your class and tomorrow my
time is 7 45 okay because today
there was uh
there was there in fast speed so my
company network
was not working okay so next time it
will be working okay
so okay okay bye